>> Jem Young: Everybody here should
have a way to SSH into a server, and
hopefully you have an SSH key.
If you don't, shame on you, you should
have done it for the first one, but
you should have at least one lying around.
So for the first part we're
gonna create a server.
We're gonna do pretty much everything
we did in the first course, but much,
much faster.
Because I don't have to explain anything.
And you'll see that once you do it,
it's actually really easy.
A few people here were saying, it was so
great bringing up the server, because
it was so much easier than I thought.
And it is, sort of, [LAUGH] as long as you
follow the paved road on how to do it.
So let's go ahead and bring up the server.
So on DigitalOcean, or Amazon, or
whatever your preferred provider.
I like DigitalOcean, they have probably
one of the best user interfaces for
bringing up the server.
Amazon is pretty ugly,
but use whatever you want.
We'll be using DigitalOcean today.
We're gonna create a new Ubuntu server.
Be sure to use Ubuntu 16.04 dot whatever,
doesn't matter.
If you're watching this a year from now,
it doesn't matter,
16.04 is the LTS version.
That means it's gonna be supported for
at least two years.
That's the version we're
gonna stick with today.
We used 16.10 in the last class,
only cuz the node set up was slightly
easier, but that's now been deprecated.
So now we're all gonna use 16.04,
cuz I know it will be around for
at least two years.
And when you bring up that server
be sure to use an SSH key.
>> Jem Young: And I'll give you a minute,
and then I will go ahead and do that.
Just to make sure we are all
doing the same page, but
it's fairly straightforward
in DigitalOcean.
>> Speaker 2: Can I use
a local server on my machine?
>> Jem Young: Yeah totally, yeah.
I found the satisfaction of creating
something that you can show your mom or
whoever.
But, yeah you can use a local server.
You will run into trouble when
we get to the HTTPS part, so
you won't be able to install
a certificate on your local machine.
You can, but
it won't be a real certificate,
it'll be kind of a fake certificate.
So I would encourage you to bring up
a new server, but it's your call.
If you've already brought up a server
before on 16.04 you can chill.
I kind of encourage you
to bring up a fresh one,
just in case you installed
something strange.
Cuz again,
we're all following the same path, and
I don't know what you did before.
But if you have confidence that
I can fix it, that's cool too.
I believe in independence.
You don't have to listen
to every word I say.
Actually, you do.
You're kind of stuck here [LAUGH].
And while that's happening, it takes
a few seconds to bring up a new server,
if you have a domain, if you've already
bought one, they're pretty cheap now,
there are some for like $1.
Point your domain to the new server.
We have to do it now ahead of time.
We're probably going to cover HTTPS
after lunch, but we want to do it now,
because the, yeah,
why do we have to do it?
I explained this on the first one.
>> Speaker 2: It takes time to resolve
on the physical machine sync up.
>> Jem Young: Yes, DNS takes time to
resolve across the entire world, so
we're gonna point the domain
to a new server now, and
there's a link to part one if you
need to remember how to do that.
But we wanna do that now,
because we're gonna create HTTPS,
we're gonna create that nice,
cool lock arrow for your domain name.
But we have to do it now.
Okay, just gonna do a quick
show of how we do that.
So if anybody wants to bring up,
hopefully you follow the steps already.
But you click Create Joblet in
DigitalOcean and pick your data center.
Pick whichever one is closest to you,
naturally.
We're kind of in the middle,
so let's pick New York.
It's probably slightly
faster than San Francisco.
And if I want to add the ssh key,
we just click that and
then you give it a name
which I've already done.
I already have one that I brought
up earlier just to make sure.
Actually, just like I point my IP
address to my new domain cuz I'm lazy.
Super lazy.
And once you're in your server as root,
you log in as root.
Let's give you a heads up.
Don't move on to the next step yet.
We will do it all together.
As you will probably remember when
you create the ssh key, there,
why won't you go, there we go.
If you say pwd,
that's print working directory,
this is all my local machine now,
I'm not logged in to a server yet.
I always switch to the ssh folder because
it's slightly shorter for me to type.
So to remember how to log
in is ssh -i to use my key.
It's my private key I'm using,
and I'm gonna say root.
Gotta remember what my server IP is.
Just gonna copy that.
>> Jem Young: Root at, [NOISE], and yes.
Right, that was easy, right?
We spent so
much time setting up a server and
talking about how to set up a server and
then you do it in three minutes.
That's what it's all about,
it's getting faster and faster and faster.
Everyone logged into their server?
You will have a hard time if you're not
logged in to your server past this point.
>> Jem Young: Okay, no response is a yes.
Let me make
this bigger,
all right.
All right, can you see in the back?
All right, cool, perfect.
All right, step 4.
Let's update our server,
how do we update our server?
Remind me, I'm getting old,
I forget things.
>> Speaker 3: Apt update.
>> Jem Young: Yes, so we don't have
to sudo, because we're already
as the super user, so we're just
gonna say apt update, all right.
Next, let's actually,
we just pulled down everything.
Think of, the correct analogy
is think of like a get repo,
we're just pulling it down but
we haven't merged anything yet.
We just have references to
the things we want to do.
So let's say apt upgrade.
Yes, we're gonna upgrade
all of our local libraries.
Right now, you're sitting there thinking,
you're thinking, why am I here on Friday?
I could do like so much better things.
That's what you're thinking.
But, and the second thing you're
thinking is, why are we using apt and
not apt-get,
cuz we've always used apt-get.
In fact all my slides, install this one,
doesn't really matter.
All of my slides on the last
one were all apt-get.
Well, I'm glad you were thinking that,
cuz I was thinking that too.
Apt-get is, think of it as the
programmer's way of updating a repository.
It's consistent,
it doesn't have any fanciness to it.
It's always gonna have
the same style of output, so
you can programmatically
create scripts against it.
Apt is the friendlier user,
the friendlier user interface
way of creating your repo's.
They do the same thing,
except apt can change in the future.
It's just a little bit nicer.
It has those nice progress
bars that apt doesn't have.
That's pretty much the key difference, but
I'm glad you were thinking that
cuz I was thinking that too.
All right, let's add a new user.
You can call it test, you can call it
friend or master, it doesn't matter.
I'm gonna say test, just for
the sake of simplicity.
So adduser test.
Let me give it a pretty simple
password for this time around.
>> Jem Young: Next, let's make sure that
our new test user has sudo permission.
So we're gonna say, usermod -aG sudo test.
Awesome, so
our test user now has sudo permissions.
So let's switch over,
su, switch user, test.
And I'm just gonna cd,
that's my home directory.
I mean, /home/test, or slash home,
whatever you made your user.
And I just want to check to
see that I have permission.
So I'm going to say /var/log/auth.log.
It's gonna ask for your password.
All right, so I can sudo things.
Pretty important.
Once we, we're gonna lock the root account
so you can't log in as root anymore.
So you wanna make sure
you have sudo access,
otherwise you're gonna have a bad time.
And you'll start over again.